Nutshell
"The Rates and Monetary Amounts and Amendment of Revenue Laws Bill, 2018, has been tabled in Parliament. The Bill aims to make amendments to, among others, the Value-Added Tax Act, 1991 by: (a) including the activities of an intermediary in the definition of “enterprise”; and (b) subjecting such activities to VAT. The Bill also proposes that estate duty of 20% be levied on estates that do not exceed R30 million, and estate duty of 25 % on estates that exceed R30 million."
"A new practice directive took immediate effect for Gauteng High Courts and the local divisions. The directive relates to commercial court practices, which seek to promote efficient conduct of litigation in the High Court and resolve disputes with legal acuity."
"The Taxation Laws Amendment Bill, 2018, which include legislative amendments for the more complex tax proposals that were announced in the 2018 Budget Review on 21 February 2018, has been tabled in Parliament. Tax proposals in the Bill include: (a) providing more flexibility for the treatment of retirement fund transfers and withdrawals; (b) shortening the write-off period for electronic communications cables; and (c) refinements and clarification for the conversion of debt to equity."
"Comment is invited by 19 November 2018 on the proposed National Biodiversity Framework. The framework provides for, among others: (a) the intended users of the framework; (b) the context for implementation of the framework; (c) an overview of key national strategies, frameworks and systems that guide the work of the biodiversity sector; and (d) key acceleration measures that provide opportunities for fast-tracking implementation."
The Cape Town Deeds Office have introduced new procedures relating to the reinstatement of deeds that were incorrectly rejected and the procedure to apply for the expediting of the registration of deeds.
"A new pension funds guidance note has been published to provide clarity on the process for the registration of rules or the alteration, rescission, addition or consolidation of rules where queries were raised or additional information requested and the fund has failed to provide same within the prescribed time."
"A guidance notice has been published on the payment and recovery of arrear contributions collected by attorneys on behalf of retirement funds. The notice provides for, among others: (a) guidance on the process and time period for the recovery of arrear contributions and the payment of such contributions to a retirement fund’s bank account; and (b) the minimum requirements for an agreement concluded between an attorney and a retirement fund for the collection of arrear contributions."
"The Tax Administration Laws Amendment Bill, 2018, will be tabled in the National Assembly shortly. The Bill provides for the amendment of the: (a) Income Tax Act, 1962; (b) Customs and Excise Act, 1964; (c) Value-Added Tax Act, 1991; (d) Securities Transfer Tax Act, 2007; (e) Tax Administration Act, 2011; and (f) Customs Control Act, 2014."
"Comment is invited by 16 November 2018, on proposed regulations on the registration of births and deaths, 2018. The regulations provide for, among others: (a) the notice of birth for children born of South African citizens and non-South African citizens and children born in and outside of South Africa; (b) the verification, approval or rejection of a notice of birth; (c) notice of deaths which occur in and outside of South Africa; and (d) death certificates."
"Law enforcement officers appointed by a municipality have been declared peace officers in the areas of jurisdiction of the municipalities which made the appointment; and in respect of certain offences, in the Republic. Among other things, these peace officers may issue a written notice to secure attendance of an accused in a magistrate’s court; and may search a person arrested without a warrant, and seize an article."
"An area situated within the Atlantis industrial area, north of Cape Town, has been designated a special economic zone. A special economic zone is an economic development tool to promote national economic growth and export by using support measures in order to attract targeted foreign and domestic investments and technology."
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that the mere fact that an investor is already retired at the time when an investment is made, does not absolve a financial services provider from the duty to conduct a financial needs analysis."
"Comments are invited by 31 October 2018 on the proposal that failure by a company to submit an income tax return as and when required under the Income Tax Act for years of assessment ending during the 2009 and subsequent calendar years, where SARS has issued that company with a final demand, requiring the submission of the outstanding income tax return, and the company failed to submit the return within 21 business days of the date of issue of the final demand, be declared an incidence subject to a fixed-amount penalty in terms of the Tax Administration Act, 2011."
The Western Cape local division of the High Court recently ruled that (a) the payment of damages as a result of intentional breach of contract through repudiation is not so closely linked to the taxpayer’s trade to constitute an allowable deduction in terms of section 11(a); and (b) Reliance on incorrect professional advice is not a bar to claiming a remittance of section 89quat interest.
"Comment is invited on proposed regulations to be implemented regarding the new Compensation Fund assessment model. The regulations seek to reduce fraudulent activities, improve service delivery and provide more effective enforcement."
"The Financial Sector Conduct Authority (“FSCA”) has published its regulatory strategy for the period 2018–2021. The strategy sets out: (a) the regulatory and supervisory priorities of the FSCA for the next three years; (b) the intended key outcomes of the strategy; (c) guiding principles and matters the FSCA should have regard to when performing its functions; and (d) the FSCA’s approach to administrative actions as well as how it will give effect to requirements of openness to consultation, accountability, and consistency with relevant international standards."
"The reporting obligations for transactions or positions in over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives have been published by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority. A provider must report the details of the OTC derivative transactions, whether confirmed or not, that it has executed in certain asset classes to a trade repository. Where an OTC derivative transaction is cleared through a central counterparty, the central counterparty must provide a report."
"Amendments have been published to Sectoral Determination 6 for the private security sector published 1 September 2015, relating to the minimum wages payable to persons employed in that sector etc"
"The final version of the conduct standard for authorised over-the-counter derivative providers has been published. The conduct standard provides for, among others: (a) general duties of providers; (b) requirements relating to the categorisation of clients and counterparties; (c) disclosure of information to clients; and (d) client and counterparty agreements."
"A new practice note has been published that continues the current practice of external companies, subjoining to the name of any incorporation, the origins or jurisdiction in brackets, as prescribed by the Companies Act, 1973."
"Practice Note 1 of 2018 provides for the implementation of the Youth Employment Service (Y.E.S) Initiative under Amended Code Series 000, Statement 000 of the Amended Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Codes of Good Practice. B-BBEE Recognition will only be awarded to Y.E.S Measured Entities that have registered with the Y.E.S Non-Profit Company."
Comments are invited on an exposure draft that seeks to identify the projects to prioritise on the Accounting Standards Board’s (“ASB”) Work Programme for 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2023. Any input received on the proposals will be used to identify what activities the ASB should undertake during 2021 to 2023.
"Further comments have been invited by 26 October 2018 on certain clauses of the Copyright Amendment Bill, which is currently before the Portfolio Committee on Trade and Industry in Parliament. The clauses relate to, among others: (a) the rights of distribution and rental; (b) creating an offence for not providing information to a collecting society; and (c) empowering collecting societies further."
The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider who fails to acquaint herself with the risks involved in investing in an unlisted company will be personally liable towards her client if the investment fails.
"Comment is invited by 11 November 2018 on the proposed amendment to the definition in Schedule 1 of “National Small Enterprise”, as contained in the National Small Enterprise Act 102 of 1996. The amendments aim to ensure that the definition is current, relevant and applicable to the structure and nature of small, medium and micro enterprises, thereby ensuring access to government support programmes while promoting their financial sustainability and ability to promote and create employment over the medium to long term."
A small claims court has been established for the adjudication of small claims in the area of Soweto.
"SARS has published an updated guide on mutual agreement procedures (“MAPs”), which allows competent authorities from the governments of contracting jurisdictions to interact with the intent to resolve international tax disputes. The minimum information requirements for MAPs have also been updated."
"An updated guide to capital gains tax has been published by SARS. It reflects the law as at 18 December 2017 as amended by the Taxation Laws Amendment Act, 17 of 2017. The main changes relate to paragraphs 12A (Concession or compromise in respect of debt) and paragraph 43A (Dividends treated as proceeds on disposal of certain shares) of the Eighth Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 58 of 1962."
"Various sections relating to policyholder protection in both the Long-term Insurance Act, 1998, and Short-term Insurance Act, 1998 are repealed from 1 October 2018."
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider (“FSP”) who fails to acquaint himself with the risks involved in a particular investment, will be personally liable towards his clients if the investment fails, even where the FSP has rendered the financial service under the licence of a close corporation."
"The Policyholder Protection Rules for long-term insurance have been amended. Among other changes, a new rule on microinsurance and funeral policy product standards is inserted, and runs concurrently with, and in addition to, all other rules set out in the Rules. New Rules are also inserted to govern the payment of premiums and misrepresentation."
"The Policyholder Protection Rules for short-term insurance have been amended. Among other changes, a new rule on microinsurance product standards is inserted, and runs concurrently with, and in addition to, all other rules set out in the Rules."
"New amendments have been effected to regulations under the Short-term Insurance Act, 1998. The amendments relate to, among others: (a) the authorisation of and requirements for the collection of premiums by intermediaries; (b) limitations on the remuneration for services rendered as an intermediary; and (c) requirements, limitations and prohibitions relating to binder agreements."
"The Mining Charter, 2018, has been published for implementation. The aim of the Charter is to end the regulatory uncertainty that has shrunk investment in the sector. Among other things, the requirements for ownership of a mine and mine community development are ring-fenced and will require absolute compliance at all times."
"Comment is invited on the proposed Employment Equity Regulations, 2018. The regulations provide for, among others: (a) the elimination of unfair discrimination; (b) equal pay for work of equal value; (c) the differentiation in the terms and conditions of employment; and (d) the duties of designated employers."
"A full bench of the Gauteng Pretoria High Court recently held that where consumer foreclosure debts fall within the jurisdiction of the Magistrate’s Court or Regional Court, no such matter may be lodged with the High Court without leave of the High Court to do so. This will severely impact on credit providers as they will no longer be able to enforce their credit agreements at a convenient central location, but will be forced to enforce them in Magistrates’ Courts all over the country. This decision will apply, for now, only in matters within the jurisdiction of the Pretoria High Court."
"The Eastern Cape High Court recently, albeit in a non-binding part of the decision, incorrectly applied the rules relating to judicial interruption of prescription and overlooked that the debt, rearranged by the magistrate’s court, constituted a judgment debt where the prescription period is 30 years."
"The Gauteng High Court recently held that where a long-standing agreement of agency is terminated, the principal must provide a reasonable notice period to the agent. The decision is based on the development of the common law relying on the constitutional values of reasonableness and ubuntu."
The Supreme Court of Appeal recently ruled that the diminution in the value of trading stock lower than cost price at the end of the year of assessment as contemplated in section 22(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act 58 of 1962 can be made based on a diminution as a result of past events only.
"Comments are invited by 20 November 2018 on the proposed Employment Equity Amendment Bill, 2018. The Bill aims to amend the Employment Equity Act, 1998, by: (a) empowering the Minister of Labour to establish sectoral numerical targets for the purpose of ensuring the equitable representation of suitably qualified people from designated groups at all occupational levels in the workforce; and (b) enhancing the administration of the Act."
The National Credit Regulator has published a notice of its intent to invite comments on the proposed withdrawal of the reckless lending fee category from the Debt Counselling Fee Guideline due to debt counsellors charging the fee inappropriately to customers.
"The Financial Intelligence Centre (“FIC”) has published its annual report for the financial year 2017/18. The FIC has been preparing for the implementation of section 31 of the FIC Act, which deals with any cross-border flow of funds, into and out of the country on behalf of, or on the instruction of, another person. Once implemented, certain accountable institutions will be required to report information to the FIC concerning the cross-border transfers of funds and the parties involved in the form of a new report type called an international fund transfer report."
"Comment is invited by 20 November 2018 on the proposed Companies Amendment Bill, 2018. The Bill seeks to review and identify all the problematic areas resulting from the implementation of the Companies Act, 2008 and the Regulations as from May 2011. Furthermore, the Bill intends to align the Act with modern international corporate trends. Among other, the Bill proposes amendments to the Act requiring – (a) the social ethics committee report and remuneration report to be presented at the shareholders meeting; and (b) the appointment of an auditor to be done annually at a shareholders meeting."
"The Electronic Communications Amendment Bill, 2018, has been tabled in Parliament. The objects of the Bill are, among others, to: (a) provide for transformation of the sector through enforcement of broad-based black economic empowerment; (b) provide for lowering of cost of communications, reducing infrastructure duplications and encouraging service based competition through a wireless open access network service; and (c) provide a new framework for rapid deployment of electronic communications facilities."
A list of active insolvency practitioners and the affidavit form for renewal of appointment in South Africa have been published. The list represents the Master’s clean-up list.
The Constitutional Court recently held that the conduct of employees in singing a struggle song constituted racially offensive conduct which does not necesarily require the dismissal of the employees.
"Comment is invited on the proposed Integrated Waste Management By-laws of the City of Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality in Gauteng. The By-law provides for, among others: (a) an effective legal and administrative framework within which the Municipality can manage and regulate waste management activities; (b) an effective delivery of waste services; and (c) universal access to municipal waste services."
Comment is invited by 14 October 2018 on the proposed 6th National Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report. The report documents South Africa’s submission of its national greenhouse gas inventory for the year 2015. It also reports on the greenhouse gas trends for the period 2000 to 2015. The report is to be submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to fulfil South Africa’s reporting obligations.
The Supreme Court of Appeal recently ruled that the nature of a taxable supply is determined by the contractual relationship between the VAT vendor supplier and the recipient of the supply and not by the end-use of the goods or services under a second set of supplies.
"Comment is invited by 14 October 2018 on the proposed Third Biennial Update Report (BUR-3) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The information reported in BUR-3 on national circumstances builds on the work initiated and captured in the BUR-2. Information on the geographic profile and general climatic conditions for South Africa is updated to capture current efforts and measures that South Africa has undertaken to address climate change. Thus, the information on national circumstances, institutional arrangements, population dynamics, economy, energy and climate impacts are updated from the second BUR."
"New fees have been published by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration for services offered by the Commission, with effect from 1 August 2018. The fees range from R2 895 to R6 568."
"Limitations have been set on the use of water for urban, agricultural and industrial (including mining) purposes for the Mzimvubu-Tsitsikamma water management area in the Eastern Cape. The limitations provide for, among others: (a) curtailments for the taking of water from surface and groundwater resources for domestic, industrial and agricultural use; (b) limitations on the taking of water from sub-systems and dams; and (c) limitations on the taking of water from water schemes or dams for domestic, industrial and irrigation use."
"Comments are invited by 5 October 2018 on the Electronic Deeds Registration Systems Bill, 2017. The Bill provides for the development of an electronic deeds registration system in order to effect the registration of large volumes of deeds. The Bill further seeks to expedite the registration of deeds by decreasing the time required for the deeds registration process having regard to legislation regulating electronic communication and transactions."
Comments are invited by 14 October 2018 on the proposed prohibition on the use of the National Research Foundation Mzansi for Science logo. Proprietors of identical or similar marks already in use will not be affected by the prohibition.
The Makhuduthamaga Local Municipality in Limpopo has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.015 cents for each rand value of the property.
The Fetakgomo Tubatse Municipality in Limpopo has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.0196 cents for each rand value of the property.
The full bench of the Gauteng High Court recently held that judgment for the repayment of an accelerated mortgage agreement must be determined simultaneously with the claim for execution in the case of the primary home of the consumer. The court must also determine a reserve price for the execution sale unless there are exceptional reasons for not doing so.
"Comments are invited by 19 October 2018 on the proposed White Paper on Science, Technology and Innovation (“STI”). The Paper focuses, among others, on: (a) raising the profile of STI in South Africa by instilling an innovation culture in South African society; (b) strengthening partnerships between business, government, academia and civil society; and (c) focusing on innovation for social benefit and for fundamental economic transformation."
The Nala Local Municipality in the Free State has determined new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The new rate for business and commercial property is 0.01999 for every rand value of the property.
The Mafube Municipality in the Free State has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.02067703 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Prudential Authority (“PA”) has published a Communication that provides for: (a) the intentions of the PA with regard to the required auditing of submissions made to the PA for supervisory purposes, and the public disclosures for insurers and controlling companies pending consultation on the making of Prudential Standards in this regard; and (b) the expectation of the PA with regard to the continued reporting by insurance groups identified as part of the comprehensive parallel run pending the scoping of insurance groups and licensing of their controlling companies in accordance with the Insurance Act, 2017."
The Msinga Local Municipality in KwaZulu Natal has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.025 cents for each rand value of the property.
"Comment is invited by 19 September 2018 on a proposed Business Licensing Bill for the North West province. The Bill seeks to provide for, among others, the: (a) regulation, control and licensing of businesses in the North West; (b) appointment of the North West Business Licensing Authority; and (c) imposition of fees and penalties on various business activities."
The Rand West City Local Municipality in Gauteng has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial / industrial and mining property is 0.0319 cents for each rand value of the property.
The Dr JS Moroka Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has determined new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The new rate for business and commercial properties is 0.0187 cents for every rand value of the property.
"A demand guarantee is an abstract payment undertaking, which is expressed to be payable solely on presentation of a written demand and/or any other specified documents conforming to the terms of the undertaking, and is independent of the underlying contract. In Lombard Insurance Co Ltd v Schoeman the Gauteng South High Court held that the required degree of compliance with the terms of a demand guarantee is substantial compliance, and not strict compliance."
The author argues that it is possible to complete the transfer of immovable property of the seller after the estate of the seller has been sequestrated.
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider which fails to fully disclose a personal interest in the company in which it advises its client to invest, will be personally liable where the investment fails and the client has lost her capital."
"The Ngwathe Local Municipality in the Free State has enacted a new by-law to regulate and control activities on and in respect of spatial planning and land use management, as well as matters relating to spatial planning and development."
"Amendments have been made to the Regulations for Judicial Officers in the Lower Courts. Among others, the amendments prescribe a new code of judicial conduct for magistrates."
The Makhado Local Municipality in Limpopo has published a notice calling for the inspection of its 1st and 2nd supplementary valuation rolls and the lodging of objections. Objections must be lodged by 16 October 2018.
The Kagisano-Molopo Local Municipality in the North West has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.012000 cents for each rand value of the property.
The Kopanong Municipality in the Free State has determined new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The new rate for business and commercial properties is 0.03608 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Umvoti Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial property is 2,59 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"Comment is invited on a retail banking diagnostic report focusing on the provision of consumer transactional accounts and fixed deposits by retail banks in South Africa. The aim of the report is to identify potential deficiencies from a fair-treatment perspective in banks’ provision of such accounts and deposits, and whether and how any identified major fair-treatment deficiencies could appropriately be addressed through market conduct regulation, having regard to international good practices and the South African market context."
"The Mandeni Local Municipality in KwaZulu Natal has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0,0214 cents for each rand value of the property."
"The Tswelopele Local Municipality in the Free State has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business / commercial property is 0,010060081 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
The Ndlambe Municipality in the Eastern Cape has determined new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The new rate for business and commercial properties is 0.0106 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The private agency, Azatinetix (Pty) Ltd, has been accredited by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration to conduct conciliations, arbitrations and/or inquiries for the period 1 August 2018 to 31 July 2019."
The Inkosi Langalibalele Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property tax rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial property under 1.5 million is 0.034279 for every rand value of the property.
The terms of reference of the Healthcare Sector Inquiry conducted by the Competition Commission have been amended to extend the completion date for the Inquiry to 30 November 2018. The scope of the inquiry remains unchanged.
The Midvaal Local Municipality in Gauteng has published a notice calling for the inspection of its supplementary valuation roll and the lodging of objections. The valuation roll is open for inspection until 30 October 2018 and objections should also be lodged by then.
The Mnquma Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 0.01414 cents for every rand value of the property.
"A new directive has been issued which sets out the Prudential Authority's requirements and related considerations for cloud computing and / or the offshoring of data. Among others, banks are expected to follow a risk-based approach that is aligned with the bank's risk appetite, based on the nature and size of its operations, when implementing cloud computing and / or the offshoring of data."
A new guidance note has been published by the Prudential Authority relating to cloud computing and the offshoring of data. The guidance note is issued to assist banks to meet the Prudential Authority's requirements with regard to cloud computing and/or the offshoring of data as set out in Directive 3/2018. The guidance note should be read in conjunction with Directive 3/2018.
The South African Reserve Bank (“SARB”) has published Guidance Note 4/2018 to the effect that the SARB will continue to provide a committed liquidity facility (“CLF”) to banks to ensure banks' continued compliance with liquidity coverage ratio requirements. The Guidance Note provides for revised guidelines and conditions relating to the continued provision of the CLF.
"The National Credit Amendment Bill, 2018, also referred to as the Debt Relief Bill, has been tabled in Parliament. The Bill aims to provide for capped debt intervention to promote a change in the borrowing and spending habits of an over-indebted society. The Bill provides for mandatory credit life insurance on all credit agreements for longer than six months but no more than R50 000 in value to prevent lower income groups from falling into over-indebtedness due to changes in their financial circumstances."
"The Eastern Cape High Court recently held where information is requested from a private body ito the Promotion of Access to Information Act, 2 of 2000, and such information either does not exist, or the respondent has never been in possession of the information, it has to furnish a statement to that effect under oath."
The KwaZulu-Natal High Court recently granted default judgment in circumstances where the debtor possibly had valid defences against the claim because the court failed to recognise that the cessionary does not have stronger rights than the cedent.
The Gauteng High Court recently held that the practice directives issued by the Judge-President that preclude money judgments where the home of the consumer is at stake before the question of the executability of the property has been decided are based on an incorrect interpretation of s 129(4) of the National Credit Act and should not be followed.
"Regulations have been published under the Legal Practice Act, 2014 to deal with the: (a) election of legal practitioners to the Legal Practice Council; (b) establishment of Provincial Councils; (c) composition, powers and functions of Provincial Councils; (d) practical vocational training requirements that candidate attorneys and pupils must comply with; and (e) right of appearance of pupils in court or any other institution."
The appointment of Canara Bank as Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange and as Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange with limited authority has been cancelled with effect from 31 August 2018.
The terms of reference of the Data Services Market Inquiry conducted by the Competition Commission have been amended to extend the completion date for the Inquiry to 31 March 2019. The scope of the inquiry remains unchanged.
"Water restrictions have been lifted on the use of water for domestic, industrial and agricultural purposes from the Mgeni System's Dams, the Klipfontein Dam and the Hluhluwe Dam."
"The Intellectual Property Policy of the Republic of South Africa Phase I has been published. Phase I covers intellectual property and public health. Sub-issues include, among others,: (a) local manufacture and export in line with industrial policy; (b) substantive patent search and examination; and (c) patent opposition."
The Constitutional Court recently held that an employee who earns less than the stipulated threshold and is contracted through a temporary employment service to a client for more than three months would become employed by that client subsequent to the time lapse.
"The Constitutional Court recently held that a pre-existing collective agreement, wherein a majority trade union obtained organisational rights, cannot preclude a minority union from acquiring organisational rights from an employer."
The Western Cape High Court recently held that a court has the necessary powers under the National Credit Act to confirm a debt rearrangement proposal based on an agreement between the debtor and the credit provider to reduce the interest rate.
"Comment is invited on draft standards issued by the South African Bureau of Standards. The standards relate to, among others, pressure equipment, water quality, sterilisation of healthcare products, and security techniques for information technology."
"Comment is invited on a proposed updated Integrated Resource Plan 2018 (“IRP”). Key assumptions that have changed from the Integrated Resource Plan 2010–2030 include: (a) electricity demand, which did not increase as envisaged; (b) existing Eskom plant performance that is well below the 80% availability; (c) additional capacity committed to and commissioned; and (d) technology costs that have declined significantly."
A tax interpretation note on the deduction of security expenditure incurred by a taxpayer for income tax purposes has been published. The note also examines the fringe benefits tax implications for employees when their employers fund such expenditure.
"The Youth Employment Service (“Y.E.S”) Initiative has been gazetted within Code Series 000, Statement 000 of the Amended Codes of Good Practice in terms of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, 2003 for implementation from 28 August 2018. The Y.E.S Initiative is to provide for, and institute, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (“B-BBEE”) Recognition for Y.E.S Measured Entities and qualification criteria applicable to, the B-BBEE Recognition for Job Creation."
"The Tax Ombud has published its findings in respect of systemic issues experienced by SARS and which adversely affect taxpayers. Issues include, among others: (a) delays in payment of refunds; (b) incorrect allocations of payments made by taxpayers; and (c) taxpayers who are affected by employer’s non-compliance in respect of IRP5s."
"A new directive has been published to define the terms “active employer” and “inactive employer” for purposes of the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, 1993. An active employer is an employer carrying on business and registered with the Compensation Fund, whereas an inactive employer is an employer who has either ceased doing business or is behind in submitting returns of earnings."
"The KwaZulu-Natal High Court recently held that a court is entitled to allow live video evidence ito the Court’s inherent jurisdiction to regulate its own processes and where the dictates of justice demands, subject to certain safeguards."
"Comments are invited by 13 September 2018 on proposed amendments to the Strate Rules to align it with the amended Financial Markets Act, 2012. Among others, the rule on securities issued by a foreign company is amended by deleting reference to companies listed in foreign jurisdictions. The rule now only applies to companies incorporated in the United Kingdom."
"Comment is invited by 14 September 2018 on the proposed Financial Matters Amendment Bill, 2018. The Bill proposes amendments to the Insolvency Act, 1936, the Banks Act, 1990, and the Auditing Profession Act, 2005, among others. The proposed amendments to the Banks Act will allow for qualifying state-owned companies to apply for banking licences."
The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider who fails to appreciate the risks inherent to an investment in a property syndication scheme will be personally liable where it advises an investor to invest in such a scheme and the investor loses her investment.
Comment is invited by 20 September 2018 on the proposed landscape for Sector Education And Training Authorities (“SETAs”) post 31 March 2020. A number of SETAs have been identified to streamline and integrate the value chain of interrelated and interdependent subsectors. 
"The National Gambling Amendment Bill, 2018, has been introduced in Parliament. Among others, the Bill provides for restrictions on gambling premises and on the location of automated teller machines."
The Gauteng High Court recently confirmed that set-off cannot operate against joint indivisible creditors where the debt to be set-off is owed by only one of the joint creditors.
"Comment is invited by 1 October 2018 on a proposed standard which prescribes margin requirements for non-centrally cleared over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative transactions. The Financial Sector Conduct Authority, together with the Prudential Authority, has developed a joint standard in order to give effect to South Africa's commitment to making the OTC derivatives market safer and more transparent."
Amendments have been made to certain sections of the Currency and Exchanges Manual for Authorised Dealers. Institutional investors must now submit their QAARs within two months (previously three months) of the end of the calendar quarter to the FinSurv. Managing institutions that manage assets on behalf of other institutional investors are required to report the asset allocation of such funds or policies to the originating institution as at the end of each calendar quarter within 15 days (previously one month) of each calendar quarter end to the FinSurv.
The Council for Medical Schemes has published a schedule of the deadlines for submitting 2018 quarterly statutory returns online by a Principal Officer of a Medical Scheme. The deadline for the submission of the second quarter is 7 September 2018.
"The South African Reserve Bank Amendment Bill, 2018, has been tabled in Parliament. The Bill seeks to make the State the sole holder of the shares in the South African Reserve Bank and to give powers to the Minister to exercise the rights attached to the shares in the Bank of which the State is the owner."
"The Financial Sector Conduct Authority has published the 2018 compliance reports to be completed by financial services providers (“FSPs”). The reports cover, among others,: (a) Category IV FSPs (Assistance Business); and (b) foreign FSPs."
"New criteria for authorisation as an over-the-counter derivatives provider have been prescribed. Among others, applicants for authorisation must comply with operational capital requirements and fit and proper requirements. Applicants and providers must also keep records or retain data for a period of 6 months or 5 years depending on the type of records."
A full bench of the Gauteng High Court has recently held that the regulations restricting the interest rate of a second short-term loan in the same year to 3% is valid and serves a legitimate purpose.
"A full bench of the Eastern Cape High Court recently held that the Taxing Mistress must exercise her discretion judicially, taking all relevant factors into account, and must not act capriciously. It also held that some provisions of the Guidelines to Taxation of Bills of Costs – Eastern Cape High Courts conflicted with established principles and case law and should not be followed."
"The Kareeberg Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial property is 0,02360 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
The Hantam Municipality in the Northern Cape has published its tariff of rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for business property is R0.012853468 for each rand value of the property.
"The Mohokare Local Municipality in the Free State has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0,0100 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Strate Directive on ZARX Operational Market Windows and Securities Processing has been amended to provide for the sending of a statement of holdings message either on a daily basis, or on such days when there has been a change in securities positions in an Segregated Depository Account, as required by participants."
The Dannhauser Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published its 2018/19 property rates. The rate for business and commercial properties is 4.62 cents for each rand value of the property. A notice calling for the inspection of the Municipality’s valuation roll has simultaneously been published.
Banks Act Directive 2 of 2018 has been issued. The directive deals with the materiality threshold in respect of exposure to a foreign jurisdiction in applying jurisdictional reciprocity in the countercyclical capital buffer calculation.
The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider who fails to acquaint itself with the documents underlying a property syndication scheme is personally liable where it advises an investor to invest in such a scheme and the investor loses her investment.
"The Kamiesberg Municipality in the Northern Cape has published its 2018/19 property rates. Rates are levied for businesses and multi-purpose properties, among others. The rate for business property is 0.022746 cents for each rand value of the property."
The Mpofana Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published the property rates by-laws applicable to all the rateable property in its municipal area for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.0179223 cent in the rand.
The uMngeni Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.0150 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Lephalale Municipality in the Limpopo province has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.0089 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The uMngeni Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has implemented new tariffs with effect from 1 July 2018. Among others, the tariffs relate to electricity, refuse removal and building plans."
"The Kgetlengrivier Local Municipality in the North West has implemented new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0,0127 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
Amendments have been made to the Breede Valley Local Municipality Land Use Planning By-law. The amendments relate to a change in the definition of the term appeal authority and the deletion of certain provisions pertaining to appeals. The amendments are not substantial.
The Ingquza Hill Municipality in the Eastern Cape has approved the property rates for 2018/19 to apply in its area of jurisdiction as from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.020 cent for each rand value of the property.
The Gauteng local division of the High Court recently ruled that set-off between a VAT refund owed to the taxpayer and an income tax debt by the same taxpayer may occur only when the income tax debt has been established by way of the issuing of a tax assessment.
The Masilonyana Local Municipality in the Free State has implemented new property rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The tariff for business property has been increased by 5.3%.
The Mahikeng Local Municipality in the North West has implemented new property rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The consumer deposit for business property is R3638.55.
The Emadlangeni Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has implemented new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for commercial and business property is 3.41675 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property.
"The Information Regulator has published the website privacy notice which regulates the personal information that the Regulator collects through their website for purposes of monitoring and enforcing compliance with the Promotion of Access of Information Act, 2000."
"The South African Revenue Service has published an interpretation note explaining the requirements of the physical presence test. A natural person who is not at any time ordinarily resident in South Africa during the relevant year of assessment, must comply with the test before that person will be treated as a “resident” as defined in the Income Tax Act, 1962."
The Constitutional Court has confirmed that the proposed policy for the appointment of provisional trustees and liquidators is unconstitutional as it would not achieve its purpose of transforming the industry.
"The Minister of Justice and Correctional Services has amended the Schedule to the Justices of Peace and Commissioners of Oaths Act, 1963 by the insertion of item 14AA. The amendment includes the chartered financial analyst society as a designation of Commissioners of Oaths."
Financial Accountability Supplements (form CoR30.2) may now only be filed using electronic filing channels or methods made available by the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (“CIPC”). The CIPC will no longer accept emailed or hand delivered forms. The available electronic channels will be communicated on the CIPC website.
Amendments have been made to the Currency and Exchanges Manuals and guideline documents. The amendments relate to: (a) the definition of foreign currency; and (b) definition of non-resident Rand.
The National Credit Regulator has been granted leave to appeal the Lewis Stores (Pty) Ltd judgment by the Supreme Court of Appeal. The appeal will settle the matter of charging unlawful fees on credit agreements.
The Companies and Intellectual Property Commission has designated a new electronic filing method for company and close corporation forms by mobile application with effect from 1 August 2018.
"The Information Regulator has requested a meeting with Direct Marketing Association of South Africa. The meeting is to discuss concerns that were raised in an article to suspend the effect of section 69 of the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 for 3 years."
"Compulsory specifications for hot water storage tanks (geysers) will be enforced to reduce electricity consumption in the country. To ensure effective regulation, the National Regulator for Compulsory Specifications has developed an enforcement plan which include among others, inspections, stakeholder engagements, consumer awareness and surprise raids in various business premises."
"A clarification document has been published by the Financial Intelligence Centre Act regarding the impact of the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act , 2017. The amendments have occasioned some misgivings within various affected industries such as accountable institutions. Many of these reservations are based on a lack of appreciation of the international provenance of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001."
The Gauteng North High court addressed the abuse of the Companies Act’s s 155 compromise mechanism to rid companies of their tax debts. It cannot be abused to deprive the South African Revenue Service of its legitimate tax claims.
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that someone who is not registered as a short-term insurer, but concludes insurance contracts with members of the public and accept premiums from them, will be liable for damage suffered by them as a result of them being uninsured."
SARS has published a general guidance on the mutual agreement procedure which allows competent authorities from the governments of contracting jurisdictions to interact with the intent to resolve international tax disputes.
The Knysna Local Municipality in the Western Cape has enacted its Property Rates By-law. The By-law aims to give effect to the implementation and enforcement of the Rates Policy.
"The Thabazimbi Local Municipality in Limpopo has published the new tariffs for water, sanitation, electricity, refuse removal, and property rates for the year 2018/2019. The property rate for business and commercial properties is 0.0110 cents for each rand value of the property."
"The Dikgatlong Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.0286 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
The eThekwini Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018 / 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 2.5375 cents for every rand value of the property.
The FAIS Ombud recently held that an unlicensed insurer which fails to honour a valid claim from an insured can be held liable ito the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act 37 of 2002.
"The Nketoana Local Municipality in the Free State has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018/2019. The rate for business, commercial and industrial properties is 0, 0059690 cents for every rand value of the property."
"Comment is invited on a reference guide which provides information and guidelines regarding the value-added tax (“VAT”) treatment of non-executive directors (“NEDs”). Guidance for NEDs is provided on, among others: (a) when an NED is liable to register for VAT; (b) how the value of taxable supplies must be calculated; and (c) where NEDs must register for VAT."
"The article discusses the decision in Absa v De Beer, where the Gauteng High Court held that where an inadequate credit assessment was conducted by a credit provider as required by the National Credit Act, and credit granted to an elderly couple was based solely on the value of the security, their matrimonial home. The Court found such credit was provided recklessly and it was just and reasonable under the circumstances to set the agreement aside."
"The form and manner in, and intervals at, which insurers and controlling companies must provide to the Prudential Authority quarterly, bi-annual and annual information for supervisory purposes, have been published."
The consumer price index for June 2018 was 4.6%.
"The Courts of Law Amendment Act, 2017, has been proclaimed to take effect 1 August 2018, with the exception of section 14. The Act amends the provisions of the Magistrates’ Courts Act, 1944, and the Superior Courts Act, 2013, pertaining to, among others, debt collection (especially emoluments attachment orders), jurisdiction, payment of debts in instalments, and rescission of judgments."
The Ubuntu Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has enacted a by-law relating to property rates. The rate for business properties is 0.01926 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018/2019. The rate for business, commercial and industrial properties is 0.81cents for every rand value of the property."
The Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality in the North West has levied new property rates for the financial year 2018/19 with effect from 1 July 2018. The tariff for business and commercial property is 0.03392 cents for every rand value of the property.
"New tariffs for 2018/2019 have been determined for the Dawid Kruiper Municipality in the Northern Cape, with effect from 1 July 2018. The new property rates tariff for business properties is 1,84617c per R1 value of the property."
"The Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality in the Eastern Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business property is 2.3370 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Karoo Hoogland Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business property is 0.0108 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality in the North West has enacted its Property Rates By-law. The By-law aims to give effect to the implementation and enforcement of the Rates Policy as contemplated in the Local Government: Municipal Property Rates Act, 2004."
"The City of Cape Town has published its Water Amendment By-law, 2018. The By-Law provides, among others, that no person may use or permit to be used any water obtained from a source other than the water supply system of the City for domestic purposes without the prior written approval of the City. Any owner of premises on which an alternative water source, such as well-point, borehole or well, is located or on which alternative water is used, must within 14 days of being called upon to do so provide the Director with such particulars regarding the alternative water source."
The Ubuntu Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has enacted a by-law relating to property rates. The rate for business properties is 0.01926 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018/2019. The rate for business, commercial and industrial properties is 0.81cents for every rand value of the property."
The Ramotshere Moiloa Local Municipality in the North West has levied new property rates for the financial year 2018/19 with effect from 1 July 2018. The tariff for business and commercial property is 0.03392 cents for every rand value of the property.
"New tariffs for 2018/2019 have been determined for the Dawid Kruiper Municipality in the Northern Cape, with effect from 1 July 2018. The new property rates tariff for business properties is 1,84617c per R1 value of the property."
"The Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality in the Eastern Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business property is 2.3370 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Karoo Hoogland Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business property is 0.0108 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"Comment is invited by 23 August 2018 on proposed regulations to phase out the use of persistent organic pollutants. The regulations determine that no person may use, produce, distribute, import or export a listed chemical or listed chemical-containing waste."
"The Umlalazi Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published its spatial planning and land use management by-law. Among others, the by-law provides for: (a) the adoption of the Municipality’s land use scheme; (b) applications for municipal planning approval; (c) compensation for the zoning of privately-owned property; and (d) offences and penalties."
"Comment is invited on draft standards and standards issued, amended and withdrawn by the South African Bureau of Standards. The standards issued for public comment relate to, among others, energy services, household and similar electrical appliances, safety of electric kitchen machines, and electricity metering."
"The Nongoma Local Municipality in Kwa-Zulu Natal has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business property is 0.0331 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The City of Cape Town Metropolitan Municipality in the Western Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for industrial/commercial property is 0.0143 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
The Matjhabeng Local Municipality in the Free State has published a notice calling for the inspection of the supplementary valuation roll and the lodging of objections. The valuation roll may be inspected from the 20 June 2018 to the 31 August 2018.
New property tax rates have been approved by the Matjhabeng Local Municipality in the Free State for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for business properties is R0.03688115.
The Matjhabeng Local Municipality in the Free State has published its estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year 2018/2019. The tariffs for municipal services: refuse removal and sewerage has been increased by 5.3%.
"The Kwazulu-Natal High Court, on appeal recently held that when a bank sued a consumer who had not breached her rearrangement order, that conduct constituted repudiation of the agreement, entitling the consumer to withhold her performance without breaching the agreement. The decision also overturned the finding of the court of first instance that where a consumer breached the rearrangement order, the credit provider was entitled to enforce the original credit agreement even though the consumer was not in default at the time."
The Emakhazeni Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.0275 cents for every rand value of the property.
Comments are invited on two exposure drafts published by the Accounting Standards Board. The first is a proposed guideline on the application of materiality to financial statements; the second is a proposed amendment to the Standard of GRAP on the presentation of financial statements.
The Lekwa-Teemane Local Municipality in North West has published the rates payable on all rateable property within the area of the Municipality for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.020504 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property.
A tax interpretation note has been published on the classification of risk policy and the once-off election to transfer certain policies issued before 2016 to a risk policy fund. The note provides guidance on: (a) the interpretation and application of the definition of “risk policy”; and (b) the once-of election by an insurer to transfer certain policies or classes of policies issued before 1 January 2016 to the risk policy fund.
The Umzimvubu Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property rates for the financial year 2018/19 with effect from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The tariff for business property is 0.0132 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Umuziwabantu Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published By-Laws Relating to Credit Control and Debt Collection (“the By-laws”). The By-laws set out, among others, the debt collection procedures for Municipal accounts in arrears. Municipal accounts must be paid on the due date as indicated on the account and non-payment of accounts will result in debt collection action. Where an account rendered to a customer remains outstanding for more than 60 days the Municipality may institute legal proceedings against a customer for the arrears."
"Final rules have been published for the legal profession as required by the Legal Practice Act, 2014. Every legal practitioner who is admitted and enrolled as a legal practitioner must pay an annual fee to the South African Legal Practice Council: R2500 in the case of a legal practitioner who is in practice, and R800 in the case of a legal practitioner who is not in practice."
"The Emakhazeni Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has implemented new tariffs for various charges for the 2018/19 financial year and a new property rates policy, with effect from 1 July 2018. Among others, the tariffs are applicable to: (a) electricity; (b) water; (b) sewerage; and (c) refuse removal. The property rates apply to residential, business and commercial, industrial and agricultural property."
The Tswaing Local Municipality in the North West has published various tariffs applicable to property located within the municipal area for the financial year 2018/2019. The property tax on undeveloped business property is 0.00899 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property.
The AbaQulusi Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published the rates payable on all rateable property within the area of the Municipality for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.0210853 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property.
The Greater Giyani Municipality in the Limpopo province has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 0.0265 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Rates Policy By-law of the Bitou Local Municipality in the Western Cape has been published. Among others, the by-law provides for: (a) the levying of rates; (b) differential rates; (c) impermissible rates; and (d) exemptions, rebates and reductions on rates."
The uMshwathi Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for commercial property is 0.01792243 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Thembelihle Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has levied new property rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for business, industrial and commercial property is 0.0104 cents for every rand value of the property."
The Letsemeng Local Municipality in the Free State has levied new property rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for business and industrial property is 0.0163452 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Tax Court (Johannesburg) recently ruled that the exception procedure is consistent with the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Court Rules. It is an appropriate mechanism in the Tax Court to weed out pleadings that lack averment sufficient to sustain the appeal.
"Comment is invited by 17 August 2018 on the Competition Amendment Bill, 2018. The objective of the amendments is to address: (a) the high levels of economic concentration in the economy, and (b) the skewed ownership profile of the economy."
The Kgomotso area in the North West has been detached from the Taung magisterial district to form a sub-district and detached court. The new court has criminal and civil jurisdiction.
The Maluti-A-Phofung Local Municipality in the Free State has published the approved rates and tariffs for its area of jurisdiction for financial year 2018/2019. The rate for developed business property is 0.0380 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property.
The Monetary Policy Committee of the South African Reserve Bank has taken the decision to maintain the repurchase rate at 6.5% with effect from 19 July 2018.
"The Waste Exclusion Regulations, 2018 has been published. The Regulations sets out, among others, the application procedure for the exclusion of a waste stream or a portion of a waste stream from the definition of waste ito the National Environmental Management Act: Waste Act, 2008."
"Amendments to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Interest Rate and Currency Derivatives Rules have been approved. Among others, the amendments allow the Settlement Authority to instruct a trading member to enter into a carry or repurchase transaction through the trading system for its own account or on behalf of a client in order to facilitate the settlement process, and assist the trading member, when necessary and where possible, to source a willing counterparty to the carry or repurchase transaction."
"Comment is invited by 3 August 2018 on the Gauteng Consumer Protection Bill, 2018. Among others, the Bill aims to provide for the promotion and advancement of social and economic welfare of consumers in the province and to ensure the enjoyment and protection of consumer rights."
"Comments are invited by 16 August 2018 on the Draft Tax Administration Laws Amendment Bill, 2018 (“TALAB”). The main tax administration proposals contained in the draft TALAB relate to: (a) a removal of the requirement to submit tax returns for individuals receiving a tax-exempt dividend; (b) anti-forestalling amendments for excise duties; (c) clarifications on handling incorrect invoices for value-added tax refunds; and (d) allowing the collection of value-added tax payments to apply across branches and divisions."
"Comments are invited on the Draft Taxation Laws Amendment Bill, 2018, which include legislative amendments for the more complex tax proposals that were announced in the 2018 Budget Review on 21 February 2018. Tax proposals in the Bill include: (a) providing more flexibility for the treatment of retirement fund transfers and withdrawals; (b) shortening the write-off period for electronic communications cables; and (c) refinements and clarification for the conversion of debt to equity."
The amendments to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Bond Electronic Trading Platform (“ETP”) Rules have been approved. The amendments relate to among others: (a) membership and registered officers; (b) market conduct; (c) conduct of business; and (d) settlement of bond ETP securities.
"The Theewaterskloof Local Municipality in the Western Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 1.585 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Hessequa Local Municipality in the Western Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business, commercial and industrial property is 0.008 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Khai-Ma Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.025 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Greater Taung Local Municipality in the North West has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and industrial property is 0.0016 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Moses Kotane Local Municipality in the North West has implemented new fees, charges and tariffs for the 2018/19 financial year, with effect from 1 July 2018. Among others, the tariffs relate to: (a) refuse removal; (b) sewerage; (c) water provision; (d) rental of advertising facilities; and (d) town planning."
"The Maruleng Local Municipality in Limpopo has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business property is 0.015 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Maphumulo Local Municipality in Kwa-Zulu Natal has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business properties is 0.05 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Alfred Duma Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial and business properties is 0.021 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"Comments are invited on the first supplementary valuation roll of the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality in the Eastern Cape, for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019."
The Maquassi Hills Local Municipality in the North West has enacted its municipal property rate by-law. The objective of the By-law is to give effect to the Property Rates Policy.
"The Financial Sector Conduct Authority (“FSCA”) has published a guidance note on the cancellation of registration of a fund. Where the FSCA has received an application for the cancellation of a fund’s registration accompanied by the relevant documentation, such a fund will not be required to submit statutory returns or to pay FSCA levies after the date of the submission."
The Greater Kokstad Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.027627 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Richmond Municipality in the KwaZulu-Natal has published a notice calling for the inspection of its supplementary valuation roll and the lodging of objections. The valuation roll is open for inspection until 13 August 2018.
The Mbhashe Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape has resolved to levy new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.00892 cents for every rand value of the property.
The City of Cape Town has published a notice calling for the inspection of its second supplementary property valuation roll and the lodging of objections. The valuation roll is open until 31 August 2018.
"The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has published amendments to its charges, fees and tariffs in respect of water and sanitation and the environmental management fee. The amendments took effect from 1 July 2018."
"The Richmond Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business, commercial and industrial properties is 0.0146662 cents for every rand value of the property."
The Mogale City Local Municipality in Gauteng has levied new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 02934 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Mamusa Local Municipality in the North West Province has levied new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.02317 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Laingsburg Municipality in the Western Cape has levied new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and industrial properties is 0.00855 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Bushbuckridge Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has levied new property rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to June 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 0.039 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Competition Amendment Bill, 2018, has been introduced in Parliament. The objective of the amendments is to address: (a) the high levels of economic concentration in the economy, and (b) the skewed ownership profile of the economy."
"At its recent meeting the Financial Action Task Force continued work on a number of important initiatives relating to its mandate to promote effective implementation of measures against money laundering, terrorist financing and other related threats to the integrity of the international financial system. Topics covered include, among others, (a) efforts to combat terrorist financing; (b) improving the effectiveness of the criminal justice system; and (c) an update on fintech and regtech initiatives."
"The Bela Bela Local Municipality in Limpopo has enacted, among others, a new Credit Control and Debt Collection By-law and new property rates, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The By-law relates to monies due to the Municipality and the property rates relate to the levying of rates for, among others, residential, business and commercial, and industrial property."
"An interpretation note on the tax treatment of gains or losses on foreign exchange transactions has been published. The tax treatment of transactions denominated in a foreign currency often requires a consideration of section 24I and other provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1962. The interpretation note identifies some of the situations in which one or more of these provisions may apply. The income tax treatment of virtual currencies (cryptocurrencies and non-cryptocurrencies) is not considered in the note."
"The National Treasury has declared zones in Coega, the Dube Tradeport, East London, Maluti-A-Phofung, Richards Bay and Saldanha Bay as special economic zones."
"The Thabazimbi Local Municipality in Limpopo has enacted a new Credit Control and Debt Collection By-law and new property rates, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The By-law relates to the fair and just collection of monies due to the Municipality and the property rates for, among others, residential, business and commercial, and industrial property."
"The South African Revenue Service has withdrawn Practice Note 4 of 1999 and replaced it with Interpretation Note 101, effective from 4 July 2018. The note refers to, among others, the treatment of gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions. However, the income tax treatment of virtual currencies (cryptocurrencies and non-cryptocurrencies) is not considered in this Note."
"The Emthanjeni Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates for the 2018/19 financial year, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.017 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"Comment is invited by 3 August 2018 on proposed amendments to the National Waste Information Regulations, 2012. The proposed amendments provide, among others, that a person registered as a transporter of waste for gain must within 30 days from the date of registration add the details of the vehicle used for transportation of waste for gain on the South African Waste Information System in order to receive a vehicle registration certificate. The vehicle registration certificate will be valid for a period of 3 years from the date of issue."
The Kou-Kamma Municipality has resolved to levy new property rates effective from 1 July 2018. The rate for business properties is 0.84599 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Ephraim Mogale Local Municipality in the Limpopo Province has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.0259 cents for every rand value of the property.
The City of Mbombela in Mpumalanga has enacted a new Property Rates By-law for the financial year 2018/2019. The By-law seeks to give effect to the implementation of the Rates Policy as contemplated in the Local Government Municipal Property Rates Act 2004.  The By-law took effect on 1 July 2018.
"The Greater Tzaneen Local Municipality in Limpopo has published a list of rates and tariffs for the 2018/19 financial year, which take effect 1 July 2018. The list covers, among others, property rates and tariffs for solid waste and sewerage, and water supply services."
"The Richtersveld Municipality in Northern Cape has published a list of rates and tariffs for the 2018/19 financial year, which take effect 1 July 2018. The list covers, among others, property rates and tariffs for solid waste and sewerage, and water supply services."
The Maquassi Hills Local Municipality in the North West province has enacted a new Credit Control and Debt Collection By-law. The By-law implements and enforces the policy of the Municipality and provides for ancillary matters and procedures related to credit control and debt collection.
The Victor Khanye Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has levied new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.02923 cents for every rand value of the property.
The Gasegonyana Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has levied new property rates with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business properties is 0.011357 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The SCA recently held that a risk-only policy is not an asset in the estate of the policyholder or in the joint estate of a marriage in community in property. Such a policy is thus not an insurance policy ito s 15(2)(c) of the Matrimonial Property Act, and the appointment of a third party beneficiary by the insured life does not constitute an alienation of the policy as contemplated in s 15(2)(c)."
"The South African Insurance Association proposed a risk assessment to determine the money laundering and terrorism financing risk across the short-term insurance sector including financial intermediaries. Following a constructive discussion, the Financial Intelligence Centre (“FIC”) agreed to a risk assessment to determine the vulnerabilities in the short-term insurance sector, including financial intermediaries. As an interim measure, the FIC and the Prudential Authority confirmed that the short-term insurance industry would be exempted as Accountable Institutions pending the outcome of the risk assessment."
"The Supreme Court of Appeal recently held that when the Master of the High Court issues subpoenas ito the Companies Act, he must exercise his discretion independently; not at the instruction of the liquidators."
"The Competition Amendment Bill, 2018, will be introduced in Parliament soon. The Bill seeks, among others, to introduce provisions that clarify and improve the determination of prohibited practices relating to restrictive horizontal and vertical practices, abuse of dominance and price discrimination and to strengthen the penalty regime."
"Comment is invited by 17 August 2018 on the retail distribution review (“RDR”) discussion document on investment related matters. The purpose of the discussion document is to elicit stakeholder input on possible regulatory measures to: (a) define the activity of “investment management” and consider the extent to which investment management needs to be demarcated from other forms of discretionary investment mandate; (b) clarify the nature of the legal and business relationships between different types of discretionary investment mandate holders, collective investment scheme management companies and investment advisers; and (c) provide for fee and remuneration arrangements to align with the RDR approach of aligning remuneration with actual activities performed and avoiding unnecessary duplication of costs for the end investor."
"The Nquthu Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has enacted new Credit Control and Debt Collection and Property Rates By-laws, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The by-laws relate to monies due and payable to the Municipality in respect of, among others, rates, fees and surcharges on fees and the property rates for, among others, residential, business and commercial and agricultural property."
"New property rates have been determined for the Mbombela Municipality in Mpumalanga for the financial year 2018/19. Among others, the general rate for property in the Mbombela Municipality is 0.9326 cents for every rand value of the property."
The Ray Nkonyeni Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018/2019. The rate for business and commercial property is 0.018338 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The property rates to be levied on property located in the jurisdiction of the Phumelela Local Municipality has been approved with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for a business property is 0,0095 cent for every rand value of the property."
"The Moqhaka Local Municipality in the Free State has determined, among other tariffs, property rates for the 2018/19 financial year. The rate for a business improved erf is 0.0155 cents for every rand value of the property."
"The Prudential Authority has published a circular to highlight the requirements of sections 7(3), 7(4) and 7(5) of the Banks Act, 1990, as amended by the Financial Sector Regulation Act, 2017, in so far as a due diligence audit of a bank is concerned."
The Nkandla Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has enacted a new Municipal Property Rates By-law and Rates Policy. The Municipality has also levied new property rates for the financial period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019.
"An income tax interpretation note has been published by the South African Revenue Service, which provides general guidance on the deduction of pre-trade expenditure and losses as contemplated in the Income Tax Act, 1962. All pre-trade expenses, subject to certain requirements, may now be claimed as a deduction incurred by a taxpayer during any year of assessment ending on or after 1 January 2004."
"The Umhlabuyalingana Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published its final municipal tariffs for the financial year 2017/2018, applicable to all properties within its jurisdiction."
"The Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality in the Free State province has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business, commercial and industrial property is 0.030770 cents for every rand value of the property."
"The JB Marks Local Municipality in the North West has published new property rates, effective 1 July 2018. The rate for commercial property is R1.30477 for each rand value of the property."
"The Drakenstein Local Municipality in the Western Cape has published new property rates, effective 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is R0.010603 cents for each rand value of the property."
The Ba-Phalaborwa Municipality in Limpopo has determined the rates payable on all rateable properties within the area of the Ba-Phalaborwa Municipality for the financial year 01 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The approved tariff for business and commercial properties is 0.0134784 cent for every rand value of the property.
"The City of Tshwane in Gauteng has published its Property Rates Policy By-Laws. Among others, the By-laws summarise the property rates tariffs for the period 1 June 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 3,414 cents in the rand."
"In a reconsideration application in terms of s 6(12)(c) of the Uniform Rules of the High Court, the Pietermaritzburg High Court  set aside a search warrant the Competition Commission had earlier applied for and obtained in terms of s 46(1) of the Competition Act. The Court ordered the Commission to return all materials and items seized from the premises of the applicants. The Court found that there was insufficient evidence that collusion had occurred, or was taking place or was likely to take place in the relevant market."
The Gauteng North High Court recently held that where a pension fund is faced with two conflicting divorce orders it may not simply accept that the latest of the two orders reflects the true state of affairs. The pension fund needs to wait for the conflict to be settled before making a payment to any of the parties.
"The Prudential Standards as prescribed by the Prudential Authority for the effective implementation of the Insurance Act, 2017, have been published. The standards provide for among others, financial soundness, and governance and operational standards."
"The KwaDukuza Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published By-Laws Relating to Credit Control and Debt Collection (“the By-laws”). The By-laws sets out, among others, the debt collection procedures for Municipal accounts in arrears. Municipal accounts must be paid on the due date as indicated on the account and non-payment of accounts will result in debt collection action. Where an account rendered to a customer remains outstanding for more than 60 days the municipality or its authorised agent may institute legal proceedings against a customer for the arrears."
"The Chief Albert Luthuli Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has implemented new property rates, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.009 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Ugu District Municipality in KwaZulu Natal has implemented new tariffs for various charges for the 2018/19 financial year, which came into effect 1 July 2018. Among others, the tariffs are applicable to: (a) water charges; (b) sanitation charges; and (c) industrial effluent charges."
"The Ngwathe Local Municipality in the Free State has implemented new property rates, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.0249 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Uphongolo Local Municipality in KwaZulu Natal has implemented new property rates, with effect from 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.010 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Moretele Local Municipality in the North West has implemented new property rates, effective 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.035 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality in the Free State has enacted its Property Rates By-law. The By-law aims to give effect to the implementation of the Rates Policy contemplated in the Local Government: Municipal Property Rates Act, 2004."
"The Kgatelopele Local Municipality in the Northern Cape has implemented new property rates, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.0149 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
The Consumer Credit Market Report and the Credit Bureau Monitor (“the reports”) have been published. The reports are based on data submitted by registered credit providers and credit bureaus respectively. The latest edition of the reports covers credit market information up to March 2018. The number of applications for credit increased by 0.49% quarter-on-quarter from 10.48 million in December 2017 to 10.49 million in March 2018.
The Siyancuma Municipality in the Northern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial period 2018 / 2019. The rate for business properties is now 0.6862 cents for every rand value of the property.
The City of Matlosana in North West has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018 / 2019. The rate for industrial properties is 0.02960 cents for every rand value of the property.
"The Umzimkhulu Local Municipality in Kwazulu Natal has enacted new credit control and debt collection by-laws, which came into effect 1 July 2018. The by-laws aim to give effect to the implementation of the Credit Control and Debt Collection Policy contemplated in the Local Government: Municipal Systems Act."
"The Umdoni Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has enacted the new by-law relating to credit control and debt collection.  The by-law aims to ensure that all money that is due and payable to the Municipality is collected and utilised to deliver municipal services in a financially sustainable manner to the best advantage of the community, residents and ratepayers."
The Endumeni Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business and commercial properties is 4.2000 cents in the rand for every rand value of the property.
The Constitutional Court recently held that s 2C(1) of the Wills Act is unconstitutional as the definition of “surviving spouse” excludes spouses in polygamous Muslim marriages.
"The Ngqushwa Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 2018/2019. The rate for commercial, industrial and special properties are 0.0191cents for every rand value of the property."
A guidance note has been issued on Directive 8 (prohibition on the acceptance of gratification). The purpose of the guidance notice is to provide practical guidance on the interpretation and implementation of Directive 8 and to address enquiries received by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority.
"Comment is invited by 28 July 2018 on the issues for consideration during the review of the public broadcasting policy by the Department of Communications. Among others, the issues for consideration are: (a) the size and scope of the public broadcaster; (b) the governance framework of the broadcasting policy; and (c) the accountability measures in the broadcasting policy."
"Pension funds are requested to provide updated information, with the addition of new unclaimed benefits and benefits paid since the previous upload of data, to the Unclaimed Benefit Fund Search Engine provided on the Financial Sector Conduct Authority website before or on 30 September 2018. Funds are thereafter expected to update the information every three months."
The format of the licence authorising a financial services provider to act in that capacity has been published by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority.
"The Levies for Financial Institutions Notice, 2018 has been published. The Notice sets out the various levies imposed on, among others, (a) pension funds and administrators; (b) retirement annuity funds; (c) short-term and long-term insurers; (d) collective investment schemes; and (e) exchanges."
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider which fails to see and communicate to its client the risks inherent in a poorly governed syndication property scheme, will be personally liable where the client loses her investment. This determination confirms the Ombud’s earlier recommendation in the same complaint."
"Amendments have been made to the Joint Rules of practice for the Eastern Cape Division of the High Court. Among others, the amendments set out the requirements relating to: (a) pagination and indexes; (b) heads of argument and; (c) opposed motions."
Comment is invited on exposure drafts issued by the Accounting Standards Board. The exposure drafts relate to: (a) proposed Interpretation of the Standards of GRAP on Accounting for Adjustments to Revenue; (b) proposed amendments to the Interpretation of the Standards of GRAP on Applying the Probability Test on Initial Recognition; (c) proposed Guideline on Accounting for Landfill Sites; and (d) proposed revisions to the Standard of GRAP on Financial Instruments.
"The Prudential Authority has communicated the process for the conversion of registrations under the Long-Term Insurance Act, 1998, and Short-Term Insurance Act, 1998, to licences under the Insurance Act, 2017.  As of 1 July 2018, every previously registered insurer that, immediately before the 1 July 2018 has been registered as a long-term insurer or a short-term insurer under the LTIA or STIA continues to exist as an insurer, as if it had been licensed under the Insurance Act."
"The list of directives, notices, information letters and guidance notes issued under the Long-term Insurance Act, 1998 (“LTI Act”) and the Short-term Insurance Act, 1998 (“STI Act”) that remain in force, are withdrawn or have lapsed, and are no longer relevant has been published. The list is relevant for all insurers registered or deemed to be registered under the LTI or STI Act, or both, including those insurers whose registration is subsequently converted to a license under the Insurance Act , 2017."
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that a financial services provider (“FSP”) which fails to see and communicate to its client the risks inherent in a poorly governed syndication property scheme, will be personally liable where the client loses his investment. This determination confirms the Ombud’s earlier recommendation on the same complaint."
"Amendments have been made to the Rules regulating the conduct of the Magistrates’ Courts of South Africa. Among others, the amendments relate to: (a) the rescission and variation of judgments; (b) the attachment of emoluments by emoluments attachment order; and (c) the enquiry into the financial position of the judgment debtor."
"The Prudential Authority  has prescribed Prudential Standards necessary for the effective implementation of the Insurance Act 18 of 2017, which takes effect on 1 July 2018. The Insurance Act, among others:(a) provides a legal framework for the prudential supervision of insurance business in the Republic that is consistent with international standards for insurance regulation and supervision; (b) introduces a legal framework for microinsurance to promote financial inclusion; and (c) replaces certain parts of the Long-term Insurance Act, 1998, and the Short-term Insurance Act, 1998."
"Comment is invited on the draft standards issued by the South African Bureau of Standards. Among others, the national standards issued for comment relate to occupational health and safety management systems and fire classification of construction products and building elements. Issued in addition are: new standards; amended standards; and withdrawn standards."
"The Supreme Court of Appeal recently held that where a lease of immovable property is cancelled due to breach of the agreement and eviction is sought, the place of the lessee’s domicile and the place where the agreements were concluded, have concurrent jurisdiction with the place where the lease property is situated."
The appointment of Exchange4free South Africa (Pty) Limited as an Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange with limited authority (“ADLA”) has been cancelled with immediate effect. Shoprite Money Transfers (Pty) Limited is appointed as an ADLA.
"Shoprite Money Transfers (Pty) Limited has been appointed as an Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange for the purposes of the Exchange Control Regulations, effective 22 June 2018."
Exchange4free South Africa (Pty) Limited has been removed as an Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange for the purposes of the Exchange Control Regulations.
"The Supreme Court of Appeal recently held that contingency fees for non-litigious work are not per se unlawful, but that they might be against public policy in certain circumstances. The court also considered what the norms for fees for the attorney’s profession entailed. It also considered the scope of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act where state organs act pursuant to a court order."
"Comment is invited on proposed Medical Schemes Amendment Bill, 2018, which provides for, among others, the exclusion of the application of the Consumer Protection Act, 2008 in matters relating to medical schemes, the introduction of an enhanced system of governance of medical schemes and the declaration of the carrying on of the business as a medical scheme by persons not so registered as an offence and the sanctions for such offence."
"Fees payable to the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors for inspections, called firm fees, have been prescribed. For all assurance work categorised as high risk, firm fees are billed twice a year based on a percentage of the total audit and other assurance work invoiced by the firm and declared every calendar year by the firm for each registered auditor. The prescribed fees are applicable until 31 March 2019."
"The Tax Court (Western Cape) recently ruled that where an employee, who is not an independent contractor, executes his duties in a foreign jurisdiction in terms of an employment contract concluded in South Africa, the income so received by the employee is, for income tax purposes, taxable in South Africa."
"Comments are invited on the sixth supplementary valuation roll of the City of Mbombela Local Municipality in Mpumalanga, for the financial year 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018."
"The Cederberg Local Municipality in the Western Cape has implemented new property rates, effective 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.016 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
Comments are invited by 10 August 2018 on the supplementary valuation roll of the Umdoni Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal for the 2018 financial year.
Comments are invited by 31 July 2018 on the supplementary valuation roll of the Msunduzi Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal) for the 2017/2018 financial years.
New property rates have been levied by the Matatiele Local Municipality (Eastern Cape) for the 2018/19 financial year. The cent amount in the rand rate determined for commercial property is 0.01150 cents. The rates are effective 1 July 2018.
"The Randburg Magistrate’s Court recently accepted the validity of the delivery of a s 129 notice under the National Credit Act by registered sms service on the debtor instead of ordinary registered mail. Although this decision is not binding, it provides persuasive argument for the use of such secure services instead of registered mail to deliver notices required under the National Credit Act."
Comment is invited by 16 July 2018 on the 2016 second supplementary valuation roll of the Saldanha Bay Municipality of the Western Cape province.
"The Madibeng Local Municipality in the North West has levied new property rates. Among other, the rate for vacant business properties is R0.015987 and mining property is R0.011033."
"The Guide to the Employment Tax Incentive (“ETI”) has been updated mainly to bring into consideration, the legislative amendments enacted by the Taxation Laws Amendment Act, 2016. The ETI is a temporary tax incentive that may be claimed by eligible employers for qualifying employees employed on or after 1 October 2013. It commenced on 1 January 2014 and will end on 28 February 2019."
Comment is invited by 16 July 2018 on the draft report on the alignment of the South African National Qualifications Framework (“SANQF”) to the Southern African Development Community Qualifications Framework (“SADCQF”). The draft report is the official statement that the SANQF is aligned to the SADCQF.
"Comments are invited by 9 July 2018 on certain clauses of the Copyright Amendment Bill, 2017. The clauses involved are, among others: (a) clause 7 [Section 7A(5)]: retrospective application, (b) clause 12 [Section 11]: nature of copyright in programme-carrying signals; and (c) clause 27 [Section 27(6)]: increased penalties for infringement – provision for fines when the convicted person is not a natural person."
"The Property Rates Policy 2018 of the Cederberg Local Municipality in the Western Cape has been reviewed. Among others, the policy provides for: (a) payment of rates; (b) rates increases; and (c) exemptions, rebates and reductions on rates."
The Metsimaholo Local Municipality in the Free State has published its general assessment rates and tariffs for the 2018/2019 financial year. The tariffs come into effect on 1 July 2018.
The Metsimaholo Local Municipality in the Free State has published its general assessment rates and tariffs for the 2018/2019 financial year. The tariffs come into effect on 1 July 2018.
"New property tax rates have been approved by the Prince Albert Local Municipality in the Western Cape for the 2018/19 financial year. The cent amount in the rand determined for a standard property is 0,355 cents."
"Comments are invited by 22 June 2018 on the Public Audit Amendment Bill, 2018. The Bill seeks to provide for the Auditor-General to take remedial action, to ensure that losses suffered by the State are, where possible, recovered, as well as to refer certain suspected material irregularities for investigation."
"Comments are invited on the amendment of the Draft Code Series 400 of 2018 of the Codes of Good Practice on Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment. Among others, the amendments aim to (a) introduce a Multiplier Factor 2 for at least 51% black-owned or at least 51% black-women-owned entities under the preferential procurement scorecard; and (b) combine and reallocate points and targets for spend with EMEs and QSEs under the preferential procurement scorecard."
"An update to the country-by-country reporting standard for multinational enterprises has been published by the South African Revenue Service. The update relates to an addition of jurisdictions in which multinational enterprises operate, that have a tax residence in South Africa and that has an obligation to file a country-by-country report with the South African Revenue Service."
"Comments are invited by 6 July 2018 on proposed amendments to Strate Directive SB.1, which provides procedures for the rematerialisation and dematerialisation of equity securities, and Strate Directive SB.2, which provides procedures for the dematerialisation and rematerialisation of bond securities."
"Comments are invited on the Spatial Development Framework to be adopted by the Mahikeng Local Municipality in the North West Province. Among others, the framework aims to co-ordinate policies, plans and programmes that impact on spatial planning, land development and land use management."
Comment is invited by 9 July 2018 on proposed amendments to the Land Use Planning By-law of the Oudtshoorn Municipality in the Western Cape.
"SARS has published a notice setting out which persons must submit returns for the 2018 year of assessment. Every company which is resident in South Africa must submit an income tax return if, among others, it derived a gross income of more than R1 000 at any time during the 2018 year of assessment."
"Amendments have been made to the Water Services By-law of the Newcastle Local Municipality in KwaZulu Natal. Among others, the amendments provide for: (a) application for water services; (b) termination of agreement for water services; (c) prescribed tariffs and charges; (d) responsibility for compliance with the By-law; and (e) penalties and offences."
New rates have been levied by the Umzumbe Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The cent amount in the rand rate determined for commercial property is 0.01 cents.
"The Newcastle Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published its Prevention and Suppression of Health Nuisance By-laws. Among others, the By-laws provide that no person may use, cause or permit to be used a shop or business premises for the purpose of storing, stocking or keeping any waste material, refuse, crates, cartons, containers or any other articles in such a way as to cause a health nuisance."
"The Umsobomvu Municipal Council has approved new property rates to be implemented as from 1 July 2018. The tariffs apply to rateable properties, including but not limited to, residential and business-industrial properties."
"The Tax Court (Johannesburg) recently ruled that it is appropriate to grant an order for an alteration of an assessment where (a) the taxpayer has not been taken unawares and proper notice has been given of the proposed alteration, (b) the provenance of the alteration is known to all and has been carefully examined by both SARS and the taxpayer and the court, (c) there can be no prejudice to either the taxpayer or SARS, and (d) a matter is brought to finality."
The Stellenbosch Municipality in the Western Cape has levied new property tax rates. The rate for business properties is R0.010493 for each rand value of the property.
"The Mantsopa Local Municipality in the Free State has published its estimates of revenue, expenditure and capital requirements of the period ending 30 June 2019. The assessment rate proposed for business properties is 0.012756 cent for each rand value of the property."
New versions of the statutory returns for long-term and short-term insurance have been prescribed. The LT2018 and ST2018 forms replace all previous annual statutory returns. The returns must be submitted within 4 months after the expiration of the end of the financial period to which they relate in electronic format and hard copy.
"The National Qualifications Framework Amendment Bill, 2018, has been tabled in Parliament. Among others, the Bill seeks to create a legal obligation for employers to report fraudulent qualifications to the South African Qualifications Authority."
"The Financial Sector Conduct Authority has published an update on the current status of the Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”). The RDR proposals will be implemented using an appropriate combination of instruments under existing financial sector laws and standards under the Financial Sector Regulation Act, 2017, and the planned future Conduct of Financial Institutions Act."
The property rates of the property located in the jurisdiction of the Bergrivier Municipality in the Western Cape have been approved for the financial year 2018/2019. The rate for business property is R0.00980 for every rand value of the property.
"The Rates Policy of the Langeberg Local Municipality in the Western Cape has been published. Among others, the policy provides for: (a) the imposition of rates; (b) exemptions, rebates and reductions on rates; and (c) the date upon which rates become due and payable."
"The Langeberg Local Municipality in the Western Cape has implemented new property rates, effective 1 July 2018. The rate for business property is 0.0089 cents in the rand for each rand value of the property."
"The Newcastle Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published its noise control by-law. No person may establish a new township unless the lay-out plan concerned, if required by the Municipality, indicates in accordance with the specifications of the Municipality, the existing and future sources of noise with concomitant dBA values which are foreseen in the township for a period of 15 years following the date on which the erection of the buildings in and around the township commences."
The property rates to be levied on property located in the jurisdiction of the Beaufort West Municipality in the Western Cape have been approved for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business property is R0.023800 for every rand value of the property.
"The Newcastle Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal has published its Fire Brigade Service By-law, which relates to, among others: (a) procedure on the outbreak of fire; (b) provisions regulating combustible material; and (c) the safety of premises and buildings."
"Comments are invited on structure plans for specified areas, to be adopted by the Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality in the Free State. The structure plans amendments relate to the areas of Parkwest and Willows and Kolbe Avenue and Oranjesig. New structure plans will be introduced for, among others, Branswag suburb and Dan Pienaar Avenue, and Louw Wepener Street and Dan Pienaar Avenue."
"There are a number of new Standards of GRAP that entities should expect to adopt in both the 2019/2020 and 2020/21 reporting periods, as pointed out by the Accounting Standards Board. The Minister of Finance recently approved: (a) GRAP 20, Related Parts Transactions, (b) GRAP 32, Service Concession Arrangements, and (c) GRAP 108, Statutory Receivables, among others."
"The Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality in the Free State has called for the inspection of the third supplementary valuation roll, for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2021, and the lodging of objections by 31 July 2018."
"Comments are invited on the Climate Change Bill, 2018, which seeks to provide the effective management of the impacts of climate change, adapt an adequate national response to global climate change, and make a fair contribution to the global effort to stabilise greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere."
"A fee guideline has been published by the National Credit Regulator prescribing the fees payable to the SA Credit and Risk Reporting Association for: a) the onboarding of credit and data providers, b) the maintenance and use of the data transmission hub, and c) the monitoring and reporting of all data submitted via the data transmission hub to the credit bureaux."
The property rates to be levied on property located in the Overstrand Municipality have been approved for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for commercial land is 0.008173 cent in the rand rate for the property.
The Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality in the Eastern Cape has called for the inspection of its supplementary valuation roll and the lodging of objections for the financial years 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2021. The valuation roll is open for public inspection from 11 June 2017 to 27 July 2018 and objections should also be lodged within this period.
The North West Naledi municipality has published its supplementary valuation rolls 6 and 7. No further information was provided.
The Supreme Court of Appeal recently ruled that cession of a right to future dividends constitutes the accrual of an unconditional right in an amount that must be included in gross income.
"The Council for Medical Schemes has published guidance on the new demarcation exemption system and the relevant information that affected entities are required to submit. Attention is drawn to the details of insurers and financial service providers who provide indemnity products that are deemed to be doing the business of a medical scheme and that have been exempted with effect from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2019. The deadline for submission of information is by the close of business on Friday, 29 June 2018."
"The Lekwa Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has published its Property Encroachment By-law. The By-law provides for, among others, rules for the construction of encroachments, columns, balconies, bay windows, verandas and pavement openings."
"The Disposal of Contaminated and or Infectious Waste By-law has been enacted by the Lekwa Local Municipality in Mpumalanga. Among others, the by-law provides for: (a) infectious waste; (b) storage and transport of infectious waste; (c) removal and disposal or infectious waste; and (d) offences and penalties."
"The Mkhondo Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has published By-laws for the Control of Outdoor Advertising. The By-laws are designed to regulate outdoor advertising on or visible from roads within the municipal area, whether or not such sign is erected on private property."
"The Mkhondo Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has published its Property Encroachment By-laws. The Council, aware of its duty to safeguard safety of all persons within the area under the jurisdiction or control of the Council, and being obliged to create and maintain an aesthetically pleasing and safe environment, has adopted the By-laws with the aim of regulating and controlling encroachments on municipal property."
The Lekwa Local Municipality in the Mpumalanga province has published its Electricity By-law which seeks to regulate the supply of electricity and all matters related thereto.
"The Lekwa Local Municipality in Mpumalanga has published an Advertising Signs By-Law. The By-law provides, among others, that no person may erect any advertisement or sign which is visible from any street or public place or on any Council property without first having obtained the written approval of the Council."
"The electricity by-law of the Chief Albert Luthuli Municipality in Mpumalanga has been published. No electricity supply may be approved for an electrical installation unless, and until, the owner or occupier of the premises has completed a consumer's agreement in a form prescribed by the Municipality."
"A new Waste Management By-law has been published by the Chief Albert Luthuli Municipality in the Mpumalanga province. The By-law seeks to regulate the avoidance, minimisation, generation, collection, cleaning and disposal of waste within the jurisdiction of the Municipality and for matters related thereto."
"The private agency Accord Africa Dispute Resolution (Pty) Ltd has been accredited by the Council for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration to conduct conciliations and/or arbitrations for the period 1 June 2018 to 30 April 2019."
The frequently asked questions document relating to value-added tax (“VAT) issued by the South African Revenue Service has been updated. The booklet aims to assist vendors and the public with the implementation and implications of the increase in VAT to 15% as from 1 April 2018.
"The High Court has recently imposed administrative fines on entities that had ignored compliance notices for failing to lodge financial statements. Companies whom the CIPC engages on matters relating to non-compliance must rectify conduct that goes against the spirit of the Companies Act, which is “high standards of corporate governance and high levels of transparency”."
"Comments are invited on the proposed revised code of conduct for auditors. Key elements of the restructuring project include, among others, (a) increasing the prominence of the requirements to comply with the fundamental principles; and (b) emphasising that compliance with the fundamental principles are the overarching ethical outcomes."
"Comment is invited on the proposed Conduct of Business Report (“COBR”) published in terms of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The proposed COBR is intended to replace the current compliance reports, as a result of the changing regulatory landscape and the focus on outcomes based regulation and proactive supervision."
"The Rules to the Government Employees Pension Law, 1996, have been amended. Among others, the amendments provide for: (a) definition of “eligible child pensioner” and “child’s pension”; (b) benefits on the death of a member; and (b) benefits on the death of a pensioner."
"Specific bargaining councils have been accredited by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration to conduct conciliations, arbitrations and/or inquiries for the period 1 May 2018 to 31 July 2023."
"The water research levy has been increased by 6.79% for the period of 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. The increased rates and charges have an impact on: (a) irrigation of land; (b) water supply from government; and (c) water made available for use for urban, industrial or domestic purposes."
"The Intellectual Property Policy of the Republic of South Africa Phase I has been published. Phase I covers cover intellectual property and public health. Sub-issues include, among others, (a) local manufacture and export in line with industrial policy; (b) substantive patent search and examination; and (c) patent opposition."
"The Banking Supervision Department of the Prudential Authority has published its 2017 annual report. Total banking sector assets amounted to R5 157 billion at the end of 2017 compared to R4 877 billion at the end of 2016. The annual growth rate in banking sector assets accelerated to 5.7% at the end of 2017, compared to 1.0% in 2016."
"The Financial Intelligence Centre Act (“FICA”) deals with different aspects of financial crimes. The accompanying article discusses the implications of the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act, 2017. The Amendment Act is an attempt by the South African legislature to improve the effectiveness of the Act. In this regard, it has introduced far-reaching and fundamental changes that also bring South African law more in line with international standards."
The Emalahleni Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.0102 cents.
"Annual consumer price inflation was 4.5% in April 2018, up from 3.8% in March 2018. The consumer price index increased by 0.8% month-on-month in April 2018."
The Emalahleni Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape has levied new property tax rates for the financial year 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. The rate for business properties is 0.0102 cents.
"Comments are invited by 11 June 2018 on certain clauses in the National Credit Amendment Bill, 2018. The clauses relate, among other things, to (a) the powers of the Court to reduce interest rates, charges and fees to zero; (b) the maximum gross income figure in respect of the longer term debt intervention measure; and (c) the maximum total unsecured debt in respect of the longer term debt intervention measure."
The Senqu Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape has published a notice calling for the inspection of the general valuation roll until 25 June 2018 and the lodging of objections.
"The author of the accompanying article argues that where a surety undertakes liability as “surety and co-principal debtor” such surety in fact becomes a principal debtor. This argument goes against the conventional view and the author argues that a whole line of Supreme Court of Appeal cases, stretching over decades, has been wrongly decided."
"The FAIS Ombud recently determined that where an unregistered financial services provider (“FSP”) accepts premiums from a client ito of a funeral policy without actually obtaining funeral cover from an underwriter, the FSP will be personally liable for any a claim under the policy."
Comment has been invited by the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality (Gauteng) on its first supplementary valuation roll for the financial year 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2021. The closing date for lodging an objection is 29 June 2018.
Comment has been invited by the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality (Gauteng) on its seventh supplementary valuation roll for the financial year 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2017. The closing date for lodging an objection is 29 June 2018.
Comment has been invited by the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality (Gauteng) on its seventh supplementary valuation roll for the financial year 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2017. The closing date for lodging an objection is 29 June 2018.
"Comment is invited on amendments to the National Environment Management: Air Quality Act 39 of 2004. The amendments seek to amend the list of activities (eg. Petrochemicals, sulphur recovery plant, thermal treatment, etc) which have or may have a significant detrimental effect on the environment, including health, social conditions, economic conditions, ecological conditions or cultural heritage."
"Online submissions to the Financial Sector Conduct Authority, such as the mark-to-market valuation report, capital adequacy report, and the statutory reports must be completed and submitted by managers of collective investment schemes."
"Comments are invited on an amendment to the National Framework for Air Quality Management, 2012. Among others, the amendment provides for: (a) national policy on air quality management; (b) roles and responsibilities for air quality management; (c) atmospheric emission licences and inventory portal; (d) strategy development; and (e) penalties/offences."
The Gauteng High Court recently overruled the decision of the National Consumer Tribunal that club membership fees charged by a retailer constituted prohibited fees ito the National Credit Act. The court held that the fees were not ‘required’ by the credit provider and therefore did not constitute prohibited fees under section 101.
"The terms of reference for the commission of inquiry into the administration and governance by the South African Revenue Service have been published. Among other things, the commission will investigate whether the change in the operating model of SARS post 2014 contributed to inefficiencies and ineffectiveness with particular reference to the revenue shortfall in 2016/17 and 2017/18."
Comments are invited by 30 June 2018 by the eThekwini Metropolitan Municipality (KwaZulu-Natal) on its thirteenth supplementary valuation roll for the financial years 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2017 and its supplementary valuation roll two for the financial years 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2021.
"Insurers must complete and submit a notification form relating to the outsourcing of a control, management or material function. The form, issued by the Prudential Authority, has, among others, a section relating to the proposed outsourcing and the supporting documents which indicate to whom the outsourcing will be attributed."
The Ventersdorp Local Municipality in North West has published a notice calling for the inspection of the supplementary valuation roll and the lodging of objections for the financial year 2017/2018.
The Rustenburg Local Municipality in the North West Province has published a notice calling for the inspection of the supplementary valuation roll for financial year 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
The Langeberg Municipality in the Western Cape has proclaimed its Integrated Zoning Scheme By-law to commence on 18 May 2018. No person may erect any building or structure: (a) except for a purpose permitted by the By-law and only in accordance with the applicable development parameters; or (b) without first obtaining approval from the Municipality in terms of the Planning By-law.
"The Capricorn District Municipality in Limpopo has enacted its Air Quality Management By-law. Among others, the by-law provides for: (a) duty of care; (b) controlled emitters and dust emissions; (c) burning emissions; (d) atmospheric emission licence; and (e) penalties/offences."
"The Supreme Court of Appeal recently held that where an administrative decision is part of a process, the 180 days limitation period under the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act only commences when the decision has direct external legal effect. It also held that regulators have an obligation to combat monopolistic behaviour, and not to perpetuate and worsen a monopoly by its decisions."
"Comments have been invited on the supplementary valuation rolls of the City of Umhlathuze and the Jozini Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal for the periods 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2019, and 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2018, respectively."
Comments are invited by 31 May 2018 by the Okhahlamba Local Municipality (KwaZulu-Natal) on its supplementary valuation roll for the 2017/18 financial year.
The Gauteng Division of the High Court recently ruled that a subordination agreement between a resident company creditor and a non-resident company debtor affects the ranking of the creditor only. It does not change the loan agreement status as an ‘affected’ agreement for transfer pricing rules in terms of s 31 of the Income Tax Act.
"Comment is invited by 15 June 2018 on a proposed directive that seeks to direct banks to: (a) complete and submit form BA 410 relating to operational risk on a quarterly basis; (b)  submit to the Prudential Authority its first quarterly form BA 410 for quarter 3 of 2018, being 1 July 2018 to 30 September 2018, and thereafter; (c) submit the relevant form BA 410 after each relevant quarter-end; and (d) complete the form BA 410 return on a bank solo, bank consolidated and controlling company consolidated basis."
"Amended directives on the Strate client acceptance procedure and requirements for own-name clients have been published. A participant must not open an account for a client in terms of the Strate Rules, unless: (a) the client confirms in writing whether or not it will act as a nominee; (b) the participant takes reasonable measures to verify the client's name and identity, and records the method of verification; and (c) where the client has indicated that it will act as a nominee, such client has been approved as a nominee."
The Tax Court (Cape Town) recently ruled that cession of a right to future dividends does not constitute the accrual of an unconditional right in an amount that must be included in gross income. The cessionary merely becomes entitled to a contingent right.
"With effect from 1 June 2018, the Financial Intelligence Centre (“FIC”) is decommissioning its current e-mail query address. To improve service delivery, the FIC will be using the online system that comes into operation on that date. After 1 June 2018 the FIC will not be able to process queries sent via the FIC feedback inbox."
"Comment is invited by 15 June 2018 on the materiality threshold in respect of exposure to a foreign jurisdiction in applying jurisdictional reciprocity in the countercyclical capital buffer calculation. With effect from 1 January 2016, all countercyclical capital buffers (“CCyBs”) implemented by members of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and by non-member countries, should be incorporated into a weighted average CCyB calculation based on jurisdictional reciprocity."
"The Banks Amendment Bill, 2018, has been introduced in Parliament by the Economic Freedom Fighters. The Private Member’s Bill seeks to amend the Banks Act, 1990, to make it possible for state-owned companies to register in terms of the Act and to conduct the business of a bank."
"The Tax Court (Johannesburg) recently ruled that where the commissioner settled a matter on a certain matrix of facts, it cannot now “reopen” the matter and lead further evidence to prove fraud, misrepresentation, or a failure to disclose facts."
"The Tax Court (Cape Town) recently ruled that a taxpayer must establish a sufficiently close causal link, and not a distinct and direct causal connection, between its expenditure and its income-producing operation for it to be entitled to a deduction of such expenditure."
"Cabinet approved the submission of the Occupational Health and Safety Bill, 2018, to Parliament. The Bill amends the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1993. Once adopted, the Bill will ensure greater protection of workers in respect of injuries and diseases at the workplace."
"The Northern Cape High Court recently held that it had no inherent jurisdiction to review the decision of a single member of a consumer court if the internal remedy of an appeal to a full bench of the consumer court had not been exhausted, nor did it have such jurisdiction ito the National Credit Act."
The Currency and Exchanges Manual for Authorised Dealers have been amended. The amendments involve Authorised branches under the heading of the Standard Bank of South Africa Limited; and Authorised banks under the heading of The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited and Nedbank Limited.
Hello Paisa (Pty) Limited has been appointed as a Category Four Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange with limited authority in South Africa. Hello was previously a Category Three Authorised Dealer in foreign exchange with limited authority.
"The Tax Court recently ruled that an additional assessment by the commissioner, without notice, must be set aside as it does not comply with the peremptory prescripts of the applicable legislation and is also constitutionally unsound."
"Comments are invited by the Madibeng Local Municipality (North West) on its supplementary valuation roll, for the 2017 / 2018 financial year."
"Comments are invited by the JB Marks Local Municipality (North West) on its supplementary valuation roll, for the 2017 / 2018 financial year."
The Gauteng High Court recently confirmed the decision of the National Consumer Tribunal that club fees are not prohibited fees ito the National Credit Act – they are additional services rendered to consumers. It also confirmed the decision of the Tribunal that extended warranties are permitted ito the Act.
"Comments are invited by the Newcastle Local Municipality (Kwazulu-Natal) on its sixth supplementary valuation roll, for the 2017/2018 financial year."
"This article deals with s 127 of the National Credit Act, which entitles a consumer to terminate an instalment agreement and tender return of the goods to the credit provider."
"The Ombudsman for Short-Term Insurance has published its Annual Report 2017 showcasing, among others, a decrease in the overturn rate of complaints. The Ombudsman for Short-Term Insurance has launched a manual for insurers, which will come into effect on 1 June 2018, as part of its continuing endeavours to improve the standard of its complaints handling process. The purpose of the manual is to prescribe to short-term insurers how complaints ought to be handled."
Comments are invited by the City of Johannesburg Metropolitan Municipality (Gauteng) on the supplementary valuation roll for the financial year of 1 October 2016 to 31 March 2018.
"The Emfuleni Local Municipality in Gauteng has levied rates for the financial year of 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 on the market value of property or of a right in property, in respect of various categories of properties."
